welcome back everybody hope your monday
is off to a smooth start you're watching
great day st. Louis seems like it's a
given these days if you have a child
it's a good chance that somewhere along
the line he or she is going to need
braces at some point but why spend years
to straighten their teeth and you can
actually do it just a few months this is
pretty cool it's actually possible with
what's called fast braces dr. anna smith
from dentistry with TLC is here to
explain the process and her patient very
boldly at 16 years old Lauren Harris is
here to show us the beautiful results of
fast braces good morning to both of you
good morning that so dr. Smith tell me a
little bit about fast braces and how
they differ from the traditional braces
well fast braces are amazing technology
that allows children and adults to
straighten their teeth quicker they cost
less they come with a lifetime guarantee
and there's no more sensitivity than
regular braces and so the the difference
in the technology is really that it
allows us to do in one year what it
takes traditional braces two years to do
so for example Laurens case her mom was
reminding me this morning that they
actually had orthodontist tell them it
would be probably two to three years to
straighten her teeth and be in the range
of five to eight thousand dollars well
what fast races we did it in less than
nine months she has a great bite
straight teeth and it was about a forty
five hundred dollar case so save them
thousands of dollars as well so
literally like I guess a little more
than half the price a little less than
half the time that she was being that
hurt you know her mom was talking to be
before the show couldn't believe it I
mean it seemed like a no-brainer and
Lori we got some before and after
pictures and I want to ask you a little
bit about the experience what did you
experience any pain and I know you've
said you've had friends who've had
traditional braces did you kind of swap
stories well I mean there was always
pain after they were tightened and
adjusted but I really felt good the next
couple days I mean my best friend got
braces a month before me and she got the
regular kind and she'll be in pain for
weeks after and also she's still in them
no oh really poke poke nicely done now
you're
we're talking about what normally would
be again a two to three year process and
you by the way don't the offices in
godfrey you don't live anywhere close to
Godfrey dude oh no i live in allah do so
but your dad said let's make the trip it
sounds like it's worth it doctor I have
to think I had just have to think
logically that if you're moving the
teeth twice as fast or even more rapidly
than the traditional braces that there's
got to be an added element of pain but
it sounds like that's not the deal
there's really not and it it doesn't
mean that it has to be more sensitive
just because it's faster if you look at
her before and afters one of the big
things with Lauren was her bite and she
actually had a to that almost laid on
its side and we were able to upright it
that's a major movement with braces and
she had she can say she had less
sensitivity than what her friends are
experiencing with their traditional
braces it's just in the technology it
doesn't have to be more painful to move
a tooth faster that's old fashioned
thinking now she's 16 years old are
there good candidates and bad candidates
for this kind of procedure is that about
as young as you want to go or does it
really no I've started kids that are
about 10 or 11 that's usually whenever
we start we start looking because
sometimes we can actually prevent
children from needing braces if we start
looking at them around age seven or
eight so i would say about age seven is
when you want to start thinking about
braces i'm usually if we do braces
starts around the age of 10 or so and
then i have 60 year olds and braces so
it can be adults also but they won't be
in them very long and Lauren you're
happy with the results I take it I'm
very happy they look beautiful this is
where I'm not supposed to smile because
then everybody would see my giant again
next to these two beautiful sets of
choppers right here thank you so much
dr. Smith and Lauren both for being here
and sharing your story we appreciate it
dentistry with TLC has a great website
you can learn more about fast braces and
dr. Smith's full range of services of
course our office is located just 30
minutes from downtown st. Louis in
godfrey Illinois but people from Allah
do or making the trip I'm just soon call
them 618 4660 733 for appointment or
visit them online at dentistry with
tlc.com thank you both so much Thank You
Man come on